.TH rdimport 1 "October 2014" Linux "Rivendell Radio Automation System"
.SH NAME
rdimport \- Audio importation tool for the Rivendell Radio Automation System

.SH SYNOPSIS
rdimport [OPTIONS] <group-name> <filespec> [<filespec>]*

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBRdimport\fP is a command-line tool for importing one or more audio files
into the Rivendell Radio Automation System.  By default, a new cart will be
created for each file imported, although this behavior can be modified by
use of the appropriate options (see the \fB--single-cart\fP and
\fB--to-cart\fP options, below).  A <\fIfilespec\fP> of '-' will cause the
list of filespecs to be read from standard input.


.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --verbose
Print progress messages during processing.
.TP
.B --help
Print a short usage message and exit.
.TP
.B --version
Output version information and exit.
.TP
.B --log-mode
Prepend date/time information to each line of printed status (implies
the '--verbose' option).
.TP
.B --normalization-level=<\fIlevel\fP>
Specify the level to use for peak normalizing the audio, in dBFS.
Specifying '0' will turn off normalization.
.TP
.B --autotrim-level=<level>
Specify the threshold level to use for autotrimming the audio, in dBFS.
Specifying '0' will turn off autotrimming.
.TP
.B --single-cart
If more than one file is imported, place them within multiple cuts within a
single cart, rather than creating separate carts for each file.
.TP
.B --segue-level=<\fIlevel\fP>
Specify the threshold level to use for setting the segue markers, in dBFS.
Default action is not to create segue markers.
.TP
.B --segue-length=<\fIlength\fP>
Length of the added segue in msecs.  See \fB--segue-level\fP above.
.TP
.B --to-cart=<\fIcartnum\fP>
Specify the cart to import the audio into, rather than using the next
available cart number for the group.  If the cart does not exist, it will
be created.  Each file will be imported into a separate new cut within the
cart.  Use of this option implies the \fB--single-cart\fP option as well,
and is mutually exclusive with the \fB--use-cartchunk-cutid\fP option.
.TP
.B --use-cartchunk-cutid
Import the audio into the cart specified by the CartChunk CutID parameter
associated with the file.  If the cart does not exist, it will be
created.  Use of this option is mutually exclusive with the \fB--to-cart\fP
option.
.TP
.B --title-from-cartchunk-cutid
Set the cart title from CartChunk CutID.
.TP
.B --cart-number-offset=<\fIoffset\fP>
Add <\fIoffset\fP> to the cart number as determined from metadata pattern
or --use-cartchunk-cutid.
.TP
.B --delete-source
Delete each source file after successful import.  Use with caution!
.TP
.B --delete-cuts
Delete all cuts within the destination cart before importing.  Use
with caution!
.TP
.B --drop-box
Operate in DropBox mode, causing \fIrdimport(1)\fP to run continuously,
periodically scanning for files matching the specified <\fIfilespec\fP>,
importing and then deleting them when found.  WARNING:  use of this option
also implies the \fB--delete-source\fP option!
.TP
.B --metadata-pattern=<\fIpattern\fP>
Attempt to read metadata parameters from the source filename, using
the pattern <\fIpattern\fP>.  Patterns consist of a sequence of wildcards and
regular characters to indicate boundaries between metadata fields.

The available wildcards are:
.RS
.TP
%a
Artist
.TP
%b
Record Label
.TP
%c
Client
.TP
%e
Agency
.TP
%g
Rivendell Group (overrides the <\fIgroup-name\fP> parameter)
.TP
%i
Cut Description
.TP
%l
Album
.TP
%m
Composer
.TP
%n
Rivendell Cart Number
.TP
%o
Cut Outcue
.TP
%p
Publisher
.TP
%r
Conductor
.TP
%s
Song ID
.TP
%t
Title
.TP
%u
User Defined
.TP
%y
Release Year (four digit numeric)
.TP
%%
A literal '%'
.RE
.RE

Detection of either the Rivendell Group [%g] or Rivendell Cart [%n]
will cause RDImport to attempt to import the file to the specified Group
and/or Cart, overriding whatever values were specified elsewhere on the
command line.  If the \fB--set-user-defined\fP option has been used,
then the value specified there will be used instead of %u.

Boundaries between metadata fields are indicated by placing regular
characters between macros.  For example, the pattern '%t_%a_%g_%n.',
when processing a filename of 'My Song_My Artist_TEMP_123456.mp3',
would extract 'My Song' as the title and 'My Artist' as the artist,
while importing it into cart 123456 in the TEMP group.
.TP
.B --startdate-offset=<\fIdays\fP>
If the imported file references a start date, offset the value by <\fIdays\fP>
days.
.TP
.B --enddate-offset=<days>
If the imported file references an end date, offset the value by <\fIdays\fP>
days.
.TP
.B --create-startdate-offset=<\fIdays\fP>
If the imported file does not reference a start date, create with 
startdate offset by <\fIdays\fP> days relative to the current date.
Cannot be greater than the value for \fB--create-enddate-offset\fP
(default = 0).
.TP
.B --create-enddate-offset=<\fIdays\fP>
If the imported file does not reference an end date, create with
end date offset by <\fIdays\fP> days relative to the current date.
Cannot be less than the value the value for \fB--create-startdate-offset\fP
(default = 0).
.TP
.B --set-daypart-times=<\fIstart-time\fP>,<\fIend-time\fP>
Set the start and end daypart times, in the format HHMMSS.
.TP
.B --fix-broken-formats
Attempt to work around malformed audio input data.
.TP
.B --add-scheduler-code=<\fIstr\fP>
Add Scheduler Code <\fIstr\fP> to the target cart.  The specified
code must exist in RDAdmin->SchedulerCodes.  This option may be
specified multiple times.
.TP
.B --set-user-defined=<\fIstr\fP>
Set the User Defined field for the target cart to <\fIstr\fP>.  This will
override any value that might otherwise be set --e.g. by using the
\fB--metadata-pattern\fP option.

.SH NOTES
It may be necessary to enclose individual <\fIfilespec\fP> clauses in quotes
in order to protect wildcard characters from expansion by the shell.  A typical
indicator that this is necessary is the failure of \fBrdimport(1)\fP to process
newly added files when running in DropBox mode.

.SH BUGS
It could be argued that RMS rather peak normalization would be more appropriate
for use with the \fB--normalization-level\fP option.

.SH AUTHOR
Fred Gleason <fredg@paravelsystems.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://www.cartchunk.org/







