.TH rdmarkerset 8 "February 2015" Linux "Rivendell Radio Automation System"
.SH NAME
rdmarkerset \- Tool for mass altering Rivendell audio cut markers

.SH SYNOPSIS
rdmarkerset [OPTIONS]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBRdmarkerset\fP is a command-line tool for setting or altering audio cut
markers in the Rivendell Radio Automation System.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --group=<\fIgroup-name\fP>
Apply marker changes to the audio cuts belonging to <\fIgroup\fP>.  This
option may be given multiple times.  Use of this option is mutually
exclusive with the \fB--all-groups\fP option, below.

.TP
.B --all-groups
Apply marker changes to ALL audio cuts in the Library.  Use of this option
is mutually exclusive with the \fB--group\fP option, above.  Use with caution!

.TP
.B --auto-trim=<\fIlevel\fP>
Auto-trim the specified cuts to the level indicated by <\fIlevel\fP> dBFS.
Specifying a '0' for <\fIlevel\fP> will remove auto-trim --i.e. move the
Start and End markers to the extreme start and end of the audio data.
Default action is to leave the Start and End markers unaltered.

.TP
.B --auto-segue=<\fIlevel\fP>
Set the Segue Start marker on the specified cuts to the level indicated
by <\fIlevel\fP> dBFS and the Segue End marker to the position of the End
marker.  Specifying a '0' for <\fIlevel\fP> will remove the segue markers.
Default action is to leave the segue markers unaltered.

.TP
.B --verbose
Print messages to STDOUT describing progress.

.SH AUTHOR
Fred Gleason <fredg@paravelsystems.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR rdimport(1)
